***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:is an artificial language that can be used to controle the behaviour of a machine,particularly computer to perform
specific tasks.


What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: is a software development kit to develop application in java. it is a software bundle which provides
 java class libraries with necessary copmonents to runjava code. jvm executes byte code and provides an
  environment for executing it.


What is an IDE?
Answer:is a software application that helps programmers develop software code efficiently, it increases developer
by combining capabilities such as software editing,building.testing,and packaging in an easy to use application.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
IntelliJ IDEA, Eclips, NetBeans, Blue j, JDevloper, JGrasp.
Answer:

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:

What is a class?
Answer:is a template used to create objects and to define object data types and methods, or a plueprint to
 creating object.

What is an object?
Answer: is an instance of a java class.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer: is the main method it is the first method that is invoked when a java program is run.

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:is the first method when startprogramming in java, use it to  make it class related method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: the  class named object is the super class of every class in java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: the main difference is path set for java tools in java programs like javac, which are used to
 compile your code.whereas classpath is used by system or application class loader to locate and load
  compile java bytecode stored in the class.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:-type of method: interface can have only abstract methods.whereas, an abstract
 class can have abstract method and concrete methods.
 -multiple inhiritance:can be partially achieved by the use of interfaces. whereas,the same can't be done by the
  use of abstractclasses. because in java one class can implement multiple interfaces, but one class cannot
   extend ffrom multiple other classes because that's just not possible in java as that would lead to diamound problem.
   -final variable:declared in java interface are by default. final an abstract class can contain non final variable.
   -implementetion: abstract class can provide the implementation of the interface. interface
   can'tprovide the implementation of an abstract class.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:we can't creat object, to implement features of an abstract class we inherit subclasses from it and create
objects of the subclass, a subclass must override all abstract methods os an abstract class.


What is Access Modifier?
Answer: are keywords that can be used to control the visibility of fields, methods and constructors in a class.
the four access modifiers in java are public, protected, default,and private.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer: is a collection of objects(data) and patterns of their interactions around data,
 or object rather than functions and logic, inheritance, polymorphism,encapsulation,and abstraction.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:is used to group related classes. package imported by default is java.lang package.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:is mechanisms that enable two software components to communicate with each other using a set of
definitions and protocols, twitter bot, weather snippets, google map.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: java doen't support multiple inheritance in class because it can lead to diamond problem and rather
 privide some complex way to solve it .

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer:method overloading is feature of java which a class has more than one method of the same name and their
parameters are different. list of the different ways to overload- by changing the number of parameters in a method.
-by changing the order of parameters in a method.- by using different data types for parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: an exception is an event,during the execution of program.that desputs the normal flow of the program's
instructions when an error occurs within a method. method creates an object and hands it offtothe runtime system.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: static variable can be used to refer to the common property of all objects.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:is a non access modifier used for classes,attributes and methods, wich makes them non changeable.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:final is an access modifier, finally is the block in exception handling, and finalize
is the method of object class,

What is a constructor?
Answer:
is similar to a method that is invoked when an object of the class is created.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: yes a class can have multiple constructors in a class.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:"this" refers to the current object in a method or constructor. we use it to eliminate the
 confusion between class attrbutes and parameters with same name.

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: super keyword refers to superclass parent objects.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:is java virtuales machine loads, verifies and executes java bytecode.it known as the interpreter or the core
of java programming language because it executes java programming.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: JVM is undoubtedly platform independent.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:jar stands for java ARchive. it's a file format based on the zip file format and used for aggregating
 many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK is a software development kit whereas JRE is running the java programs. jdk contains JVM so that can
run our java program. JVM is the heart of java programming language and privides platform independence.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE identifies all the helpful class libraries needed for execution. while JVM is subclass of JRE that decodes
 the bytecode into machine language and other minor tasks

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer: compile time is the period when the programming code is converted to the machine code. runtime is the
 period of time when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
Answer: heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by aplications running on the JVM.when the JVM
is started, heap memory is created and any objects in the heap can be shared between threads as long a the application
is running.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:refers to the process of allocating and freeing up space for objects. java automatically manages memory the
 garbage collector is an autonomous memory management technique used by java.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread safe
and synchronized.whereas StringBuilder is not.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:is a class that alows only a single instance of itself to be created and gives access to that created instance
it contains static variables that can accommodate unique and provide instances of itself. it used in scenarios when
 a user wants to restrict instantiation of a class to only one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:

What is Enum?
Answer:

What is Iterator?
Answer:

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:

What is a Framework?
Answer:

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: