***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer:data structure make easy for users to access and work with data they need in appropriate ways.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: searching: can easily search for any data element in data structure.
sorting: we can sort the elements either in the data structure.
insertion:we can insert new data elements in data structure.
deletion:we can delete the data elements from the data structure.
updation: we can update or replace the existing elements from the data structure.

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:we use it to implement back functionality in the internet browser.to store the possible moves in a chess game
to store key words which are referenced very frequently. to store the customer order information in drive in burger place.

What is an Array?
Answer: is a collection of similar data elements stored at configuous memory locations. it is the simplest data structure
where each data element can be accessed directly by only using its index number.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: an array has both primative data types as well as object data type.but Array have a fixed number of values, while
ArrayList can chane in size.

What is a LinkedList?
Answer:is a collection of nodes connected togather via links. these nodes consist of the data to be stored and
 a pointer to the address of the next node within the linked list in the case of arrays the size is limited to the
  definition, but in linked list there no defined size.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:An arrary is a grouping of data elements of equivalent data type. whereas, a LinkedList is a group of
 entities called a node. the node includes two segments:data and address.

What is a Queue?
Answer: Queue represents an ordered list of elements. java queue follows FIFO order to insert and remove its elements.
queue java suppoerts all methods of collection interface.

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer: stack in data structures is a linear type of data structure that follows the LIFO principale and allows insertion
and deletion operations from one end of the stack data structure that is top.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:LIFO( the last in first out) is method assumes that the last unit to arrive in inventory or more recent
 is sold first. FIFO(first in first out) is method assumes that the oldest unit of inventory is the sold first.

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer:Big O Notation is a tool used to describe the time complexity of algorithms. it calculates the time taken
 to run an algorithm as the input grows in other words it calculates the worst case time complexity of an algorithm
 Big O Notation in data structure describes the upper bound of an algorithm's runtime.

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:using the index value, we can access the array elements in constant time .So the time complexity is
 0(1) for accessing an element in the array.


What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer:when the value is not in the array at all, then we must look at n values if the array holds n values.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:A tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes. nodes represent value and nodes
 are connected by edges. a tree has one node called root. the tree originates from this, and hence it does not have
 any parent

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer: is a non linear kind of data structure made up of nodes or vertices and edges.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: HashMap is non synchronized whereas, HashTable is synachronized, which means hashtable is thread safe and can
be shared between multiple threads but HashMap can not be shared between multiple threads without
proper synchronization.


How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:HashMap works on hashing algorithm and used hashCode , and quals,methods on key for get and put operations.
HashMap use single linked list to store elements, these are called bins or buckets. when we call
put method, hashcode of key is used to determine the bucket that will be used to store the maping.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:is a runtime exception in java that accurs when an array is accessed with an illegal index.
it accurs when a program attempts to access an invalid index in an array.i.e.an index that is less than 0, or
equal to or greater than the length of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:- using variable assignment. this method has side effects as changes to the element of an array reflects
on boththe places. - create a new array of the same length and copy each element.
-use the clone method of the array. - use system.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:DFS is data structure used a stack to find the shortest path, andstands for depth first search.
 BFS is data structure uses a queue to find the storest path and stands for breadth first search

What is Recursion?
Answer: is solving a problem using the solution of small subproblems or defined a problem in terms of itself.

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer: linear is data elements connect to each other sequentially a user can transverse each element throuhg
a single run. - non linear data structure the data elements connect to each ither hierarchically.
 thus they are present at various levels.

Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
- quick Sort  time complexity is O(N log N)   O(N^2).
-Heap Sort  time complexity is O(N log N)    O(N log N).
-Counting Sort   time complexity is O(N+K)  O(N+K) .
-Radix Sort  time coplexity is O(N*K)    O(N*K).
